Fo Shan's citizens were well off
and practiced kung-fu as a hobby.
Martial clubs became popular. turning Fo Shan
into a province renowned for martial arts.
Martial Arts Street in Fo Shan. 1935
On July 7. 1937. the Marco Polo Incident broke out.
Japan invaded China.
robbing its people of their livelihood and causing
rampant starvation all over the country.
In October. 1938.
Fo Shan was occupied by the Japanese army...
...who destroyed factories.
infrastructures and buildings.
The population of Fo Shan shrunk
from more than 300.000 to just over 70.000.
Only a dozen factories in the whole city
remained in operation still.
Ip's residence was also confiscated and
turned into the headquarters of the Japanese army.
Ip's family was rendered homeless.
living an abject existence.
Ip Man refused to be subjugated by the Japanese army...
...and used his fists to call forth
the unity of the Chinese people.
Assisted by his good friend Zhou Qingquan.
the wounded Ip Man successfully
fled Fo Shan with his wife and son.
On August 15. 1945.
Emperor Hirohito of Japan announced
that Japan would surrender unconditionally.
The Chinese finally won and
ended a war that lasted eight long years.
In 1949. the Grandmaster Ip Man settled in Hong Kong.
He started his first Wing Chun class at
Kowloon Hotel's Staff Association Headquarters.
turning a new leaf in his life.
In 1967. Grandmaster Ip Man started
the Wing Chun Athletic Association to foster...
...the spirit of Wing Chun
with a group of like-minded enthusiasts.
fulfilling the most cherished dream of his later years.
Until now. Wing Chun has become a world
renowned branch of Chinese martial arts.
The lineage of Grandmaster Ip Man's disciples has
exceeded 2 million people.
There are lots of talented people among his disciples.
including the most illustrious action star of all.
Bruce Lee.